feat(web-components): addition of web components to website (#2215)
carbon-design-system/carbon-website: src/pages/developing/frameworks/web-components.mdx

---
title: Frameworks
description:
  The Carbon Design System is built React first. We also support core parts of
  the system in vanilla JS, Angular, Vue, Svelte, and Web Components.
tabs:
  [
    'React',
    'Vanilla',
    'Angular',
    'Vue',
    'Svelte',
    'Web Components',
    'Other frameworks',
  ]
---

<PageDescription>

> The library provides front-end developers & engineers a collection of reusable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library provides front-end developers and engineers a collection of reusable
```

</Column>
  <Column colMd={4} colLg={4} noGutterSm>
    <ResourceCard
      subTitle="Try Web Components with CodeSandbox"
      href="https://codesandbox.io/s/github/carbon-design-system/carbon-web-components/tree/master/examples/codesandbox/basic"
    >
      <MdxIcon name="codesandbox" />
    </ResourceCard>
  </Column>
</Row>

## Getting started

To install `carbon-web-components` in your project, you will need to run the
following command using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/):

```bash
npm install -S carbon-web-components carbon-components lit-html lit-element
```

If you prefer [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/), use the following command
instead:

```bash
yarn add carbon-web-components carbon-components lit-html lit-element
```

### Basic usage

Our example at [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io) shows the most basic usage:

[![Edit carbon-web-components](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/carbon-design-system/carbon-web-components/tree/master/examples/codesandbox/basic)

The first thing you need is **setting up a module bundler** to resolve
ECMAScript `import`s. Above example uses [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org). You

> can use other bundlers like [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/), too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can use other bundlers like [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/) too.
```

Once you set up a module bundler, you can start importing our component modules,

> like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for example:
```

```javascript
import 'carbon-web-components/es/components/dropdown/dropdown.js';
import 'carbon-web-components/es/components/dropdown/dropdown-item.js';
```

Once you do that, you can use our components in the same manner as native HTML

> tags, like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
tags, for example:
```

```html
<bx-dropdown trigger-content="Select an item">
  <bx-dropdown-item value="all">Option 1</bx-dropdown-item>
  <bx-dropdown-item value="cloudFoundry">Option 2</bx-dropdown-item>
  <bx-dropdown-item value="staging">Option 3</bx-dropdown-item>
  <bx-dropdown-item value="dea">Option 4</bx-dropdown-item>
  <bx-dropdown-item value="router">Option 5</bx-dropdown-item>
</bx-dropdown>
```

> If you just want to try our components for demonstrations, etc., you can use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you just want to try our components for demonstrations and so on, you can use
```

> CDNs that support module mapping (e.g. [JSPM](https://jspm.org)). With it, you

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CDNs that support module mapping (for example, [JSPM](https://jspm.org)). With it, you
```

> can just import our modules in `<script type="module">`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
can import just our modules in `<script type="module">`:
```

    <script type="module">
      import 'https://jspm.dev/carbon-web-components/es/components/dropdown/dropdown.js';
      import 'https://jspm.dev/carbon-web-components/es/components/dropdown/dropdown-item.js';
    </script>
    <style type="text/css">
      #app {
        font-family: 'IBM Plex Sans', 'Helvetica Neue', Arial, sans-serif;
        width: 300px;
        margin: 2rem;
      }

      bx-dropdown:not(:defined),
      bx-dropdown-item:not(:defined) {
        visibility: hidden;
      }
    </style>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="app">
      <bx-dropdown trigger-content="Select an item">
        <bx-dropdown-item value="all">Option 1</bx-dropdown-item>
        <bx-dropdown-item value="cloudFoundry">Option 2</bx-dropdown-item>
        <bx-dropdown-item value="staging">Option 3</bx-dropdown-item>
        <bx-dropdown-item value="dea">Option 4</bx-dropdown-item>
        <bx-dropdown-item value="router">Option 5</bx-dropdown-item>
      </bx-dropdown>
    </div>
  </body>
</html>
```

### List of available components

View available web components
[here](https://web-components.carbondesignsystem.com). Usage information is
available in the notes provided with each story.

> ### JavaScript framework integration

Reviewer 2: Can we be a little more direct with how the web component wrappers are different than Carbon Angular, Carbon React, and Carbon Vue component libraries? It's more than just who maintains them - it's differences in APIs (e.g. we wouldn't want somebody trying to reference the Carbon React docs when actually using the web component wrapper.) It's differences in accessibility audits and tests and to some degree, differences in behavior as well.

@joshblack have an suggestion on a disclaimer that we can put in a notification box here or something so there is no confusion between framework-native implementations, and framework wrappers of the web components?

Author: @mattrosno I added a note in the section that highlights the difference, let me know if the wording works!

fyi @janchild

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

    href="https://web-components.carbondesignsystem.com"
    >

![Storybook icon](images/storybook.svg)

  </ResourceCard>
</Column>
  <Column colMd={4} colLg={4} noGutterSm>
    <ResourceCard
      subTitle="Try web components with CodeSandbox"
      href="https://codesandbox.io/s/github/carbon-design-system/carbon-web-components/tree/master/examples/codesandbox/basic"
    >
      <MdxIcon name="codesandbox" />
    </ResourceCard>
  </Column>
</Row>

## Getting started

To install `carbon-web-components` in your project, you will need to run the
following command using [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/):

```bash
npm install -S carbon-web-components carbon-components lit-html lit-element
```

If you prefer [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/en/), use the following command
instead:

```bash
yarn add carbon-web-components carbon-components lit-html lit-element
```

### Basic usage

Our example at [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io) shows the most basic usage:

[![Edit carbon-web-components](https://codesandbox.io/static/img/play-codesandbox.svg)](https://codesandbox.io/s/github/carbon-design-system/carbon-web-components/tree/master/examples/codesandbox/basic)

> The first thing you need is **setting up a module bundler** to resolve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing you need to do is **set up a module bundler** to resolve
```

> ECMAScript `import`s. Above example uses [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org). You

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ECMAScript `import`s. The above example uses [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org) but you
```

can use other bundlers like [Rollup](https://rollupjs.org/) too.

Once you set up a module bundler, you can start importing our component modules,
for example:

```javascript
import 'carbon-web-components/es/components/dropdown/dropdown.js';
import 'carbon-web-components/es/components/dropdown/dropdown-item.js';
```

> Once you do that, you can use our components in the same manner as native HTML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you've imported the component modules, you can use our components in the same manner as native HTML
```

tags, for example:

```html
<bx-dropdown trigger-content="Select an item">
  <bx-dropdown-item value="all">Option 1</bx-dropdown-item>
  <bx-dropdown-item value="cloudFoundry">Option 2</bx-dropdown-item>
  <bx-dropdown-item value="staging">Option 3</bx-dropdown-item>
  <bx-dropdown-item value="dea">Option 4</bx-dropdown-item>
  <bx-dropdown-item value="router">Option 5</bx-dropdown-item>
</bx-dropdown>
```

If you just want to try our components for demonstrations and so on, you can use
CDNs that support module mapping (for example, [JSPM](https://jspm.org)). With

> it, you can import just our modules in `<script type="module">`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CDNs, you can import just our modules in `<script type="module">`:
```
